	Buelta opened her eyes. It was dead dark in her room. To the left of her bed, the tree scraped a skittering wask against the glass of her window. 

	She waited. She listened. 

	The noise was a simple rhythm she'd listened to since fall when the tree grew wide enough to touch the bedroom window before the leaves all fell off. Now it took a moderate breeze for the branches to sway enough to make the noise.

	Wask, Sheeew... Wask, sheeeww...  Wask, sheeeew.

	No other noise came from the rest of the house.

	She threw off her bedding, and jumped out of bed. She'd gone to bed early already dressed in tomorrow's clothes. Buelta tossed a pair of socks on and picked up her bulky boots before she left the room. She was extra carefull closing her door. She pulled in a deep breath and held it until she crept quietly down the hall past Old Nan's door. She stiffled her steps down a case of stairs. She snuck around a cooridoor. She passed a hall of familly portraits. She walked down another set of stairs, making sure to hopscotch the third step from the bottom which always squeeked. Through the kitchens she shuffled her other boot into her right hand so she could grab a dried salami sausage hanging near the oven. She made her way through the back door. Now that she was in the open air, sausage under her armpit, she knelt down and shuffled her shoes on. 

	She looked at the deep horizon, noting that the sky was becoming lighter past the trees on the far hills. She smiled as a chill wind whisked by her face and she breathed deeply. She snapped the sausage in half and took a bite as she set off down the road that lead toward town, not taking a single look back at her familly home as she left. This was her day and she was going to see it used to its fullest.

	Town was some ways away, but Buelta had a strict schooling schedule; one that included rigourous exercise. A half hour short jog-run and she was there. She wiped her arm across her forehead and took a minute to breath before she set off into town, the sun just making its full apearance over the hills. Her governess, Old Nan as Buelta called her, would just now be waking up and rousing the house cook to set breakfast to readying. Buelta's absence won't go noticed for another hour perhaps, and then it would take about as much time before the house was searched and Jordan the horse buck could be woken enough to satisfactorily saddle a horse. Then Old Nan would swoop into town with a storm atop her head and wrath to reign down upon Buelta. Until then, Buelta had a nice morning of exploration before her.

	she took in the sights of the town. It was a long while since she was last out of the house, and it was exhilerating to be out without notice. She walked down the main street where shops were being set up on the dry yellow horse trampled dirt. Some young children were playing on the side with a kickball. Down the other side of the street stood Ander's ice shop, and across the road from Ander's stood the town book shop. Buelta beelined for the books. She loved to read, and spent a lot of time doing so. Most of the time she was told what to read by Old Nan. Old Nan had taught Buelta's Mother, and had firm ideas about what constituted good reading. Most of the time this meant reading dank old books about the study of magic. The books smelled oddly of mildew and wilted flowers, which in fact is what Old Nan smelt like as well. 

Town of Axeldown
